ninja-core/src/site/markdown/documentation/deployment.md, before:

Deployment
==========

You just developed a great application - and now you want to host it somewhere.
Fortunately, Ninja is built on standard technologies. 

Therefore you got a myriad of great options for deployment.


War based deployment with Java application servers
--------------------------------------------------

When you run

    > mvn package

You get a <code>war</code> file in the subfolder /target of your project. That war file is compatible with almost all
war containers out there. Jetty and Tomcat are two of them, but you can also deploy to Glassfish and JBoss.

(Make sure you ran at least once "mvn jetty:run" which generates a unique secret in application.conf
that will be used to sign your application's sessions).

Just a quick example: With [Tomcat's hot deployment](http://www.mulesoft.com/tomcat-deploy) function 
you can simply take the war file produced by Ninja and drop it into the tomcat webapp folder.
Tomcat automatically detects the new file, stops the old application and starts the new one.

It can't get simpler. But better. The very same mechanism works nicely when Tomcat is running in a cluster
configuration. Simply drop the new war file into the webapp folder and that Tomcat instance will tell all
cluster Tomcat's about the file. Subsequently the cluster changes to that new version of your application.

You can easily automate that process by using the [maven cargo plugin](http://cargo.codehaus.org/Maven2+plugin). 
That makes it really easy to  get a simple Jenkins based continuous deployment up and running.

That's the power of following well proven standards. Ninja - and the apps you are building with Ninja - 
is standing on the shoulder of giants.


Standalone Ninja
----------------

Ninja also features a standalone mode where you do not need a separate servlet container. 
The standalone mode enables you to run a single maven command and get a self executing jar file that contains 
your application, Ninja and a fast server (Jetty in that case).

This allows to drop that self-executing file to your server run your application via zero dependencies.
Due to Ninja's client-side sessions it becomes really simple to have one reverse proxy in front of
many Ninja instances.

In order to do so you have to first of all add ninja-standalone as dependency to your pom.xml:

<pre>
    &lt;dependency&gt;
        &lt;groupId&gt;org.ninjaframework&lt;/groupId&gt;
        &lt;artifactId&gt;ninja-standalone&lt;/artifactId&gt;
        &lt;version&gt;X.X.X&lt;/version&gt;
    &lt;/dependency&gt;   
</pre>        

Packaging the application is done via the maven assembly plugin. Add the following snipplet
to your pom.xml.

<pre>
    &lt;plugin&gt;
        &lt;artifactId&gt;maven-assembly-plugin&lt;/artifactId&gt;
        &lt;version&gt;2.4&lt;/version&gt;
        &lt;configuration&gt;
            &lt;descriptorRefs&gt;
                &lt;descriptorRef&gt;jar-with-dependencies&lt;/descriptorRef&gt;
            &lt;/descriptorRefs&gt;
            &lt;archive&gt;
                &lt;manifest&gt;
                    &lt;mainClass&gt;ninja.standalone.NinjaJetty&lt;/mainClass&gt;
                &lt;/manifest&gt;
            &lt;/archive&gt;
        &lt;/configuration&gt;
    &lt;/plugin&gt;
</pre>

Whenever you build your application on the command line this will generate a fat jar
inside your target directory. Usually that file is named roughly MY-APPLICATION-jar-with-dependencies.jar

If you skip the section called "executions" in the maven-assembly-plugin you can generate
the fat jar by calling

<pre>
    mvn clean compile assembly:single
</pre>

Running the fat jar (and your app) is as simple as calling:

<pre>
    java    -Dninja.port=9000 
            -Dninja.mode=prod
            -jar MY-APPLICATION-jar-with-dependencies.jar
</pre>

Two parameters are important. First <code>ninja.mode</code> will allow you to set the mode of the Ninja
application you are running. Second <code>ninja.port</code> allows you to select the port on which your
application is starting.
Context path is default to "/" in standalone mode but can be changed by providing additional system property: -Dninja.context=/your_context_path


Init.d script to run Ninja as standalone service on Linux
---------------------------------------------------------

If you want to register your Ninja standalone application on your Linux box (Debian, Ubuntu) you can use
and adapt the following script. The script should be copied at /etc/init.d/ninja and can be run
via <code>service ninja start</code>.

<pre>

#!/bin/bash
# chkconfig: 345 20 80
# description: Ninja start/shutdown script
# processname: java
#
# Installation:
# copy file to /etc/init.d
# chmod +x /etc/init.d/ninja

# chkconfig --add /etc/init.d/ninja
# chkconfig ninja on
#     OR on a Debian system
# sudo update-rc.d ninja defaults

#
# Usage: (as root)
# service ninja start
# service ninja stop
# service ninja status
#
# # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # #

# Path to the application
APPLICATION_NAME=my-ninja-service
APPLICATION_PATH=/srv/ninja_applications/${APPLICATION_NAME}
APPLICATION_JAR=my-ninja-service-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar

PID_FILE=/var/run/${APPLICATION_NAME}.pid
PORT=9013

# Path to the JVM
JAVA_BIN=/opt/java-oracle/jdk1.7.0/bin/java
PARAMS="-Dninja.mode=prod -Dninja.port=${PORT} -jar ${APPLICATION_PATH}/${APPLICATION_JAR}"

# User running the Ninja process
USER=ninja

RETVAL=0

start() {
    if [ -f ${PID_FILE} ]; then
        echo "Ninja application ${APPLICATION_NAME} already running"
    else
        DAEMON_START_LINE="start-stop-daemon --chdir=${APPLICATION_PATH} --make-pidfile --pidfile ${PID_FILE} --chuid ${USER} --exec ${JAVA_BIN} --background --start -- ${PARAMS}"
        ${DAEMON_START_LINE}
        RETVAL=$?
        echo -n "Starting Ninja Application: ${APPLICATION_NAME}... "


            if [ $RETVAL -eq 0 ]; then
                echo " - Success"
            else
                echo " - Failure"
            fi
        echo
    fi
    echo

}
stop() {
    kill -9 `cat ${PID_FILE}`
    RETVAL=$?
    rm -rf ${PID_FILE}
    echo -n "Stopping Ninja application: ${APPLICATION_NAME}"

    if [ $RETVAL -eq 0 ]; then
        echo " - Success"
    else
        echo " - Failure"
    fi
        echo
    }

status() {
    if [ -f ${PID_FILE} ]; then
        echo "Ninja application ${APPLICATION_NAME} running"
    else
        echo "Ninja application ${APPLICATION_NAME} not running"
    fi
    echo

}

clean() {
        rm -f ${PID_FILE}
}

case "$1" in
    start)
    start
    ;;
    stop)
    stop
    ;;
    restart|reload)
    stop
    sleep 10
    start
    ;;
    status)
    status
    ;;
    clean)
    clean
    ;;
*)
echo "Usage: $0 {start|stop|restart|status}"
esac

</pre>



Deployment on Google App Engine
-------------------------------

[Google's App Engine] (https://developers.google.com/appengine/) is a great hosting service provided by Google.
The really cool feature is that it scales automatically. 
Deploy and never worry about any scaling issues - it is really that simple.

Ninja is fully compatible to the App Engine via the ninja-appengine module.

Please follow the guide at: https://github.com/ninjaframework/ninja-appengine/


Heroku support
--------------

Ninja is fully supported by Heroku. Check out the blog post at:
http://ars-codia.raphaelbauer.com/2013/07/running-ninja-web-framework-apps-on.html

Commit message:

Ninja now uses "ninja.mode=prod" by default (and no longer dev). Many users complained that it is quite strange to configure the prod mode when running Ninja as war inside a  servlet container. These problems are now gone.

ninja-core/src/site/markdown/documentation/deployment.md, after:

Deployment
==========

You just developed a great application - and now you want to host it somewhere.
Fortunately, Ninja is built on standard technologies. 

Therefore you got a myriad of great options for deployment.


War based deployment with Java application servers
--------------------------------------------------

When you run

    > mvn package

You get a <code>war</code> file in the subfolder /target of your project. That war file is compatible with almost all
war containers out there. Jetty and Tomcat are two of them, but you can also deploy to Glassfish and JBoss.

(Make sure you ran at least once "mvn jetty:run" which generates a unique secret in application.conf
that will be used to sign your application's sessions).

Just a quick example: With [Tomcat's hot deployment](http://www.mulesoft.com/tomcat-deploy) function 
you can simply take the war file produced by Ninja and drop it into the tomcat webapp folder.
Tomcat automatically detects the new file, stops the old application and starts the new one.

It can't get simpler. But better. The very same mechanism works nicely when Tomcat is running in a cluster
configuration. Simply drop the new war file into the webapp folder and that Tomcat instance will tell all
cluster Tomcat's about the file. Subsequently the cluster changes to that new version of your application.

You can easily automate that process by using the [maven cargo plugin](http://cargo.codehaus.org/Maven2+plugin). 
That makes it really easy to  get a simple Jenkins based continuous deployment up and running.

That's the power of following well proven standards. Ninja - and the apps you are building with Ninja - 
is standing on the shoulder of giants.


Standalone Ninja
----------------

Ninja also features a standalone mode where you do not need a separate servlet container. 
The standalone mode enables you to run a single maven command and get a self executing jar file that contains 
your application, Ninja and a fast server (Jetty in that case).

This allows to drop that self-executing file to your server run your application via zero dependencies.
Due to Ninja's client-side sessions it becomes really simple to have one reverse proxy in front of
many Ninja instances.

In order to do so you have to first of all add ninja-standalone as dependency to your pom.xml:

<pre>
    &lt;dependency&gt;
        &lt;groupId&gt;org.ninjaframework&lt;/groupId&gt;
        &lt;artifactId&gt;ninja-standalone&lt;/artifactId&gt;
        &lt;version&gt;X.X.X&lt;/version&gt;
    &lt;/dependency&gt;   
</pre>        

Packaging the application is done via the maven assembly plugin. Add the following snipplet
to your pom.xml.

<pre>
    &lt;plugin&gt;
        &lt;artifactId&gt;maven-assembly-plugin&lt;/artifactId&gt;
        &lt;version&gt;2.4&lt;/version&gt;
        &lt;configuration&gt;
            &lt;descriptorRefs&gt;
                &lt;descriptorRef&gt;jar-with-dependencies&lt;/descriptorRef&gt;
            &lt;/descriptorRefs&gt;
            &lt;archive&gt;
                &lt;manifest&gt;
                    &lt;mainClass&gt;ninja.standalone.NinjaJetty&lt;/mainClass&gt;
                &lt;/manifest&gt;
            &lt;/archive&gt;
        &lt;/configuration&gt;
    &lt;/plugin&gt;
</pre>

Whenever you build your application on the command line this will generate a fat jar
inside your target directory. Usually that file is named roughly MY-APPLICATION-jar-with-dependencies.jar

If you skip the section called "executions" in the maven-assembly-plugin you can generate
the fat jar by calling

<pre>
    mvn clean compile assembly:single
</pre>

Running the fat jar (and your app) is as simple as calling:

<pre>
    java    -Dninja.port=9000 
            -jar MY-APPLICATION-jar-with-dependencies.jar
</pre>

code>ninja.port</code> allows you to select the port on which your application is starting. By default
Ninja will start in the fast production mode.
Context path is default to "/" in standalone mode but can be changed by providing additional system property: -Dninja.context=/your_context_path


Init.d script to run Ninja as standalone service on Linux
---------------------------------------------------------

If you want to register your Ninja standalone application on your Linux box (Debian, Ubuntu) you can use
and adapt the following script. The script should be copied at /etc/init.d/ninja and can be run
via <code>service ninja start</code>.

<pre>

#!/bin/bash
# chkconfig: 345 20 80
# description: Ninja start/shutdown script
# processname: java
#
# Installation:
# copy file to /etc/init.d
# chmod +x /etc/init.d/ninja

# chkconfig --add /etc/init.d/ninja
# chkconfig ninja on
#     OR on a Debian system
# sudo update-rc.d ninja defaults

#
# Usage: (as root)
# service ninja start
# service ninja stop
# service ninja status
#
# # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # # #

# Path to the application
APPLICATION_NAME=my-ninja-service
APPLICATION_PATH=/srv/ninja_applications/${APPLICATION_NAME}
APPLICATION_JAR=my-ninja-service-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar

PID_FILE=/var/run/${APPLICATION_NAME}.pid
PORT=9013

# Path to the JVM
JAVA_BIN=/opt/java-oracle/jdk1.7.0/bin/java
PARAMS="-Dninja.port=${PORT} -jar ${APPLICATION_PATH}/${APPLICATION_JAR}"

# User running the Ninja process
USER=ninja

RETVAL=0

start() {
    if [ -f ${PID_FILE} ]; then
        echo "Ninja application ${APPLICATION_NAME} already running"
    else
        DAEMON_START_LINE="start-stop-daemon --chdir=${APPLICATION_PATH} --make-pidfile --pidfile ${PID_FILE} --chuid ${USER} --exec ${JAVA_BIN} --background --start -- ${PARAMS}"
        ${DAEMON_START_LINE}
        RETVAL=$?
        echo -n "Starting Ninja Application: ${APPLICATION_NAME}... "


            if [ $RETVAL -eq 0 ]; then
                echo " - Success"
            else
                echo " - Failure"
            fi
        echo
    fi
    echo

}
stop() {
    kill -9 `cat ${PID_FILE}`
    RETVAL=$?
    rm -rf ${PID_FILE}
    echo -n "Stopping Ninja application: ${APPLICATION_NAME}"

    if [ $RETVAL -eq 0 ]; then
        echo " - Success"
    else
        echo " - Failure"
    fi
        echo
    }

status() {
    if [ -f ${PID_FILE} ]; then
        echo "Ninja application ${APPLICATION_NAME} running"
    else
        echo "Ninja application ${APPLICATION_NAME} not running"
    fi
    echo

}

clean() {
        rm -f ${PID_FILE}
}

case "$1" in
    start)
    start
    ;;
    stop)
    stop
    ;;
    restart|reload)
    stop
    sleep 10
    start
    ;;
    status)
    status
    ;;
    clean)
    clean
    ;;
*)
echo "Usage: $0 {start|stop|restart|status}"
esac

</pre>



Deployment on Google App Engine
-------------------------------

[Google's App Engine] (https://developers.google.com/appengine/) is a great hosting service provided by Google.
The really cool feature is that it scales automatically. 
Deploy and never worry about any scaling issues - it is really that simple.

Ninja is fully compatible to the App Engine via the ninja-appengine module.

Please follow the guide at: https://github.com/ninjaframework/ninja-appengine/


Heroku support
--------------

Ninja is fully supported by Heroku. Check out the blog post at:
http://ars-codia.raphaelbauer.com/2013/07/running-ninja-web-framework-apps-on.html
