ninja-core/src/site/markdown/documentation/upgrading_to_current_version.md, before:

Upgrading to latest Ninja
=========================

From 1.6 to 2.0.0
-----------------

1) Ninja's testing artifacts have changed. 
Please rename the original ninja-core-test to ninja-test-utilities in your pom.xml. 
You end up with the following artifact:

    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.ninjaframework</groupId>
        <artifactId>ninja-test-utilities</artifactId>
        <version>X.X.X</version>
        <scope>test</scope>
    </dependency>
        
2) We have improved the default way xml is rendered and parsed
   and are now using "module.setDefaultUseWrapper(false)" of Jackson that produces output
   more similar to the Json renderers. This handles rendering lists and collections in a much better
   way. You can change that via annotation @JacksonXmlElementWrapper.useWrapping in your models
   Also see: the https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson-dataformat-xml


From  1.5.1 to 1.6
------------------

Please change any ftl.html accesses of the flash cookie from underscore syntax into "." syntax.
${flash_error} becomes ${flash.error}. ${flash_success} becomes ${flash.success}.
${flash_anyMessage} becomes ${flash.anyMessage}. This is now much more consistent with the general
way we access stuff inside any ftl.html file.


From 1.4 to 1.5.1
-----------------

If you are using Results.redirectTemporary(...) / Results.redirect(...) or Results.noContent()
AND if you are using a http body to indicate something (like a hyperlink text) you have to set
result.render(null) to remove the NoHttpResult. Otherwise nothing will change for you. You simply
don't need a html template by default any more.


From 1.3 to 1.4
---------------

Improvements in i18n. You can now use the following snipplet to include i18n into your templates:
${i18n("myMessageKey")}. Using ${i18nMyMessageKey} will be deprecated soon. Don't use it.

With the new i18n facilities you can now also format your messages with variables of your template:

${i18n("myMessageKey", myVariable)}.


From 1.2 to 1.3
---------------

In your project's pom.xml please replace artifactId ninja-core with ninja-servlet. 
You end up with the following dependency:

        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.ninjaframework</groupId>
            <artifactId>ninja-servlet</artifactId>
            <version>1.3</version>
        </dependency>


From 1.1 to 1.2
---------------

 * Please use "ninja.Messages" instead of "ninja.Lang" for getting messages.
 * Your web.xml must be adapted and should resemble:

    <web-app xmlns="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee/web-app_3_0.xsd"
            version="3.0">

        <display-name>ninja</display-name>

        <listener>
            <listener-class>ninja.servlet.NinjaServletListener</listener-class>
        </listener>

        <filter>
            <filter-name>guiceFilter</filter-name>
            <filter-class>com.google.inject.servlet.GuiceFilter</filter-class>
        </filter>
        <filter-mapping>
            <filter-name>guiceFilter</filter-name>
            <url-pattern>/*</url-pattern>
        </filter-mapping>

    </web-app>
    
    
From 1.0 to 1.1
---------------

no changes needed.

Commit message:

Changed naming convention of i18n files so that IntelliJ and Netbeans can provide better translation help.

ninja-core/src/site/markdown/documentation/upgrading_to_current_version.md, after:

Upgrading to latest Ninja
=========================

to 2.3.0
---------
 
 * File naming convention for message files have changed. Previously it was
   messages.en.properties or messages.en-US.properties. Now it is 
   messages_en.properties or messages_en-US.properties. Please rename
   them in your application and you are ready to go.
   
   This change allows you to use a lot more i18n translation tools than 
   before. For instance IntelliJ and Netbeans now automatically detect the files
   as i18n files and help you with translating them efficiently.



From 1.6 to 2.0.0
-----------------

1) Ninja's testing artifacts have changed. 
Please rename the original ninja-core-test to ninja-test-utilities in your pom.xml. 
You end up with the following artifact:

    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.ninjaframework</groupId>
        <artifactId>ninja-test-utilities</artifactId>
        <version>X.X.X</version>
        <scope>test</scope>
    </dependency>
        
2) We have improved the default way xml is rendered and parsed
   and are now using "module.setDefaultUseWrapper(false)" of Jackson that produces output
   more similar to the Json renderers. This handles rendering lists and collections in a much better
   way. You can change that via annotation @JacksonXmlElementWrapper.useWrapping in your models
   Also see: the https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson-dataformat-xml


From  1.5.1 to 1.6
------------------

Please change any ftl.html accesses of the flash cookie from underscore syntax into "." syntax.
${flash_error} becomes ${flash.error}. ${flash_success} becomes ${flash.success}.
${flash_anyMessage} becomes ${flash.anyMessage}. This is now much more consistent with the general
way we access stuff inside any ftl.html file.


From 1.4 to 1.5.1
-----------------

If you are using Results.redirectTemporary(...) / Results.redirect(...) or Results.noContent()
AND if you are using a http body to indicate something (like a hyperlink text) you have to set
result.render(null) to remove the NoHttpResult. Otherwise nothing will change for you. You simply
don't need a html template by default any more.


From 1.3 to 1.4
---------------

Improvements in i18n. You can now use the following snipplet to include i18n into your templates:
${i18n("myMessageKey")}. Using ${i18nMyMessageKey} will be deprecated soon. Don't use it.

With the new i18n facilities you can now also format your messages with variables of your template:

${i18n("myMessageKey", myVariable)}.


From 1.2 to 1.3
---------------

In your project's pom.xml please replace artifactId ninja-core with ninja-servlet. 
You end up with the following dependency:

        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.ninjaframework</groupId>
            <artifactId>ninja-servlet</artifactId>
            <version>1.3</version>
        </dependency>


From 1.1 to 1.2
---------------

 * Please use "ninja.Messages" instead of "ninja.Lang" for getting messages.
 * Your web.xml must be adapted and should resemble:

    <web-app xmlns="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee/web-app_3_0.xsd"
            version="3.0">

        <display-name>ninja</display-name>

        <listener>
            <listener-class>ninja.servlet.NinjaServletListener</listener-class>
        </listener>

        <filter>
            <filter-name>guiceFilter</filter-name>
            <filter-class>com.google.inject.servlet.GuiceFilter</filter-class>
        </filter>
        <filter-mapping>
            <filter-name>guiceFilter</filter-name>
            <url-pattern>/*</url-pattern>
        </filter-mapping>

    </web-app>
    
    
From 1.0 to 1.1
---------------

no changes needed.
