ninja-core/src/site/markdown/documentation/validation.md, before:

Validation
=========

Introduction
------------

Ninja uses Hibernate's implementation of the <code>javax.validation</code> feature. 
This means that all JSR303-defined annotations work in your 
DTO objects when you let Ninja inject parameters into your controller. 
All you have to do is to set the <code>@JSR303Validation</code> 
annotation in front of your method-parameter and catch the result of 
the validation by injecting a <code>Validation</code>-parameter the same way.

An exemplary controller method would look like:

<pre class="prettyprint">
public Result postConfirmedPublication(
    @ProfileId String profileId,
    @JSR303Validation Dto dto, 
    Validation validation) {
        ...
}
</pre>

In this example we want the context to be parsed as <code>profileId</code> 
and a <code>Dto</code>-object. Because of the leading 
<code>@JSR303Validation</code>-annotation all public fields in <code>Dto</code> 
may contain JSR303-annotations like this:

<pre class="prettyprint">
public class Dto {
        @Pattern(regexp = "[a-z]*")
        public String regex;
        @Size(min = 5, max = 10)
        public String length;
        @Min(value = 3)
        @Max(value = 10)
        public int range;
}
</pre>

You can check the result of the validation by evaluating the 
<code>validation</code>-parameter by calling its 
<code>validation.hasBeanViolations()</code>-method in your 
controller which gives you a <code>true</code> or <code>false</code>.
You have the ability to check which field(s) inside your Dto
caused the violations by using the <code>getBeanViolations()</code> 
method which gives you a complete list of all occured violations in your Dto.

Conclusion
----------

JSR303 based validation is a generic approach that allows you to check 
the validity of submitted objects. These objects can be sent to your application
via HTTP form submission, JSON or XML.

The only important part is that your DTO objects contain valid JSR303 validation
annotation which Ninja can evaluate.

If you want to validate nested DTOs or get in deeper detail, visit this great 
site: [JBOSS Validation API](https://docs.jboss.org/hibernate/validator/4.3/reference/en-US/html/validator-usingvalidator.html "JBOSS Validation API")

Commit message:

Body Parsing Improvement
Documentation for Validation enhanced. SwissKnife converters replaced
by usage of ParamParsers in BodyPostEngine. Support for enumeration
value (registration deprecated), custom types parsing and POST objects
parsing.

ninja-core/src/site/markdown/documentation/validation.md, after:

Validation
=========

Parameters validation
---------------------

When using a parameter either as controller method argument or as a DTO field value, 
if you're using one of the default supported type (see the Argument Extractors chapter 
for more information), it may produce a conversion error. For example when you are 
expecting an integer for your field but the given value contains characters.

In such cases, conversion issues are available in the
<code>validation</code>-parameter by calling the 
<code>validation.hasFieldViolations()</code>-method in your 
controller which gives you a <code>true</code> or <code>false</code>.
You have the ability to check which parameters
caused the violations by using the <code>getFieldViolations()</code> method.
Note that these violations must still be translated by using the <code>messageKey</code> 
attribute of each violation object.

Bean validation
---------------

Ninja uses Hibernate's implementation of the <code>javax.validation</code> feature. 
This means that all JSR303-defined annotations work in your 
DTO objects when you let Ninja inject parameters into your controller. 
All you have to do is to set the <code>@JSR303Validation</code> 
annotation in front of your method-parameter and catch the result of 
the validation by injecting a <code>Validation</code>-parameter the same way.

An exemplary controller method would look like:

<pre class="prettyprint">
public Result postConfirmedPublication(
    @ProfileId String profileId,
    @JSR303Validation Dto dto, 
    Validation validation) {
        ...
}
</pre>

In this example we want the context to be parsed as <code>profileId</code> 
and a <code>Dto</code>-object. Because of the leading 
<code>@JSR303Validation</code>-annotation all public fields in <code>Dto</code> 
may contain JSR303-annotations like this:

<pre class="prettyprint">
public class Dto {
        @Pattern(regexp = "[a-z]*")
        public String regex;
        @Size(min = 5, max = 10)
        public String length;
        @Min(value = 3)
        @Max(value = 10)
        public int range;
}
</pre>

You can check the result of the validation by evaluating the 
<code>validation</code>-parameter by calling its 
<code>validation.hasBeanViolations()</code>-method in your 
controller which gives you a <code>true</code> or <code>false</code>.
You have the ability to check which field(s) inside your Dto
caused the violations by using the <code>getBeanViolations()</code> 
method which gives you a complete list of all occured violations in your Dto.
With bean violations, the <code>messageKey</code> of each violation represents 
an interpolated message using the current locale.

JSR303 based validation is a generic approach that allows you to check 
the validity of submitted objects. These objects can be sent to your application
via HTTP form submission, JSON or XML. The only important part is that your DTO 
objects contain valid JSR303 validation annotation which Ninja can evaluate.

The only important part is that your DTO objects contain valid JSR303 validation
annotation which Ninja can evaluate.

If you want to validate nested DTOs or get in deeper detail, visit this great 
site: [JBOSS Validation API](https://docs.jboss.org/hibernate/validator/4.3/reference/en-US/html/validator-usingvalidator.html "JBOSS Validation API")
