ninja-core/src/site/markdown/documentation/basic_concepts/argument_extractors.md, before:

Argument extractors
===================


Injecting stuff into your controller - method scope
---------------------------------------------------

Ninja can inject a lot of stuff into your methods by default. For instance 
variable parts of routes via <code>@PathParam</code>. 
Or query / form parameters via <code>@Param</code>.  

Argument extractors allow you to use the very same mechanism 
(annotations of method parameters) to 
inject inject arbitrary things into the method of a controller. 

This allows you to process a request, extract things 
(like a user currently logged in), and provide this via an annotation.


How to write an argument extractor
----------------------------------

Let's write an argument extractor that lets us inject the user currently logged in into
our method via an annotation. At the end our controller should look like:

<pre class="prettyprint">
package controllers;

@Singleton
public class ApplicationController {

    public Result index(
            @LoggedInUser String loggedInUser) {

        //do something with the parameters...
    }

}
</pre>

The <code>@LoggedInUser</code> is a so called argument extractor
and allow you to extract arbitrary things out
of the request and re-package them into anything you want. 
<code>@LoggedInUser</code> for instance determines 
the user and injects the username into the field annotated with <code>@LoggedInUser</code>.

Argument extractors consist of two things: A marker interface and an implementation.

First the marker interface:

<pre class="prettyprint">
@WithArgumentExtractor(LoggedInUserExtractor.class)
@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
@Target({ElementType.PARAMETER})
public @interface LoggedInUser {}
</pre>

... and the argument extractor itself:

<pre class="prettyprint">
public class LoggedInUserExtractor implements ArgumentExtractor&lt;String&gt; {

    @Override
    public String extract(Context context) {
        
        // if we got no session we break:
        if (context.getSession() != null) {
            
            String username = context.getSession().get("username");
            
            return username;
            
        }
        
        return null;
    }

    @Override
    public Class getExtractedType() {
        return String.class;
    }

    @Override
    public String getFieldName() {
        return null;
    }
}
</pre>

As you can see the interface of the argument extractor references 
<code>@WithArgumentExtractor(LoggedInUserExtractor.class)</code>.
<code>LoggedInUserExtractor</code> itself has full access to the context (and the incoming request) 
and will return the object
annotated initially by 
<code>@LoggedInUser</code>. In our example this was <code>@LoggedInUser String loggedInUser</code>.

Commit message:

Added type support for byte, short, char, enum, & arrays

ninja-core/src/site/markdown/documentation/basic_concepts/argument_extractors.md, after:

Argument extractors
===================


Injecting stuff into your controller - method scope
---------------------------------------------------

Ninja can inject a lot of stuff into your methods by default. For instance 
variable parts of routes via <code>@PathParam</code>. 
Or query / form parameters via <code>@Param</code> and <code>@Params</code>.  

Argument extractors allow you to use the very same mechanism 
(annotations of method parameters) to 
inject inject arbitrary things into the method of a controller. 

This allows you to process a request, extract things 
(like a user currently logged in), and provide this via an annotation.

### Built-in Supported Types

- String
- Boolean (boolean)
- Byte (byte)
- Short (short)
- Character (char)
- Integer (int)
- Long (long)
- Float (float)
- Double (double)
- Enum *requires runtime class registration in your conf.Module*
- Arrays of all these types (e.g. String[], int[], Enum[])

**NOTE:**
Collections and generics are not supported for parameter injection.  Types
must be explicitly declared and basic arrays must be used to ensure runtime
type-safety.
 

How to write an argument extractor
----------------------------------

Let's write an argument extractor that lets us inject the user currently logged in into
our method via an annotation. At the end our controller should look like:

<pre class="prettyprint">
package controllers;

@Singleton
public class ApplicationController {

    public Result index(
            @LoggedInUser String loggedInUser) {

        //do something with the parameters...
    }

}
</pre>

The <code>@LoggedInUser</code> is a so called argument extractor
and allow you to extract arbitrary things out
of the request and re-package them into anything you want. 
<code>@LoggedInUser</code> for instance determines 
the user and injects the username into the field annotated with <code>@LoggedInUser</code>.

Argument extractors consist of two things: A marker interface and an implementation.

First the marker interface:

<pre class="prettyprint">
@WithArgumentExtractor(LoggedInUserExtractor.class)
@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
@Target({ElementType.PARAMETER})
public @interface LoggedInUser {}
</pre>

... and the argument extractor itself:

<pre class="prettyprint">
public class LoggedInUserExtractor implements ArgumentExtractor&lt;String&gt; {

    @Override
    public String extract(Context context) {
        
        // if we got no session we break:
        if (context.getSession() != null) {
            
            String username = context.getSession().get("username");
            
            return username;
            
        }
        
        return null;
    }

    @Override
    public Class getExtractedType() {
        return String.class;
    }

    @Override
    public String getFieldName() {
        return null;
    }
}
</pre>

As you can see the interface of the argument extractor references 
<code>@WithArgumentExtractor(LoggedInUserExtractor.class)</code>.
<code>LoggedInUserExtractor</code> itself has full access to the context (and the incoming request) 
and will return the object
annotated initially by 
<code>@LoggedInUser</code>. In our example this was <code>@LoggedInUser String loggedInUser</code>.
